ah great now I have to put my bag under
my feet why is there never enough free
space for luggage in the overhead bins
poor you griping about the lack of space
in the overhead bins well been there
done that
let's find out what's going on Airlines
left less space and the overhead bins to
earn more money on the luggage people
don't like to carry luggage though
because no one wants to stand in line
for inspection so apart for money this
brought a lot of problems people began
to bring more hand luggage to avoid
paying extra and waiting in line as a
result there is not enough space on the
upper shelves many passengers don't
check their luggage because they're
worried it can go missing and not for
nothing because airlines lose and send
in the wrong direction several million
bags a year almost half of those bags
are lost because of transfer issues your
bag can just not be delivered to the
plane on time
loaders then might carry these stray
bags to another flight and when your bag
goes to the wrong place it can be
accidentally taken by other passengers
if you want to quickly find your lost
luggage take a photo of it in advance
and show it to the airport staff you can
also buy a special GPS tracker and put
it in your suitcase
it works for six days and you can use
your phone to locate your luggage
wherever it is there is usually much
more equipment on main line in
international flights than on regional
planes which means that the overhead bin
space is larger if you're on a very
small regional plane you'll most likely
have to stand in line and check your
carry-on bags on huge planes you can fit
a 22 inch roller suitcase in the
overhead bin if all passengers put these
large carry-on suitcases in the overhead
bins before you and if your seat is in
the first row then you'll have to check
your bag in the luggage compartment
don't worry you don't need to pay for it
but you'll have to wait until your
luggage is unloaded at the end of the
flight the rumbling noise you hear after
boarding the plane
is luggage being loaded on the plane the
compartment is right beneath the cabin
so it sounds quite loud Airport staff
takes unclaimed luggage to a special
Center if the owner doesn't present
themselves within three months the
things inside the bags will be put up
for sale in specialized stores there you
can find clothing jewelry and electronic
devices and of course it all comes with
a big discount ok let's move on from
luggage to some other questions
the seats are blue in most aircraft
because this color Sue's people it's
also easy to keep clean carbon dioxide
released on the ground affects flights
the more of it in the atmosphere the
harder the turbulence in the air
turbulence is warmer air updrafts in the
way of the aircraft warm air always
source up and lifts anything in its way
airplane in our case when the warm air
patch runs out we roll down like on a
roller coaster
by the way passengers don't feel most of
the turbulence lightning is also harmful
to planes if a lightning bolt hits a
plane though the passengers won't feel
it either the entire aircraft is covered
with aluminium coating that conducts
electric current and doesn't let it
inside this protection is tested using a
lightning simulator now a great way to
deal with the fear of flying during
turbulence is to try old-school writing
with a pen on a notepad
better yet write with your non-dominant
hand a single windshield or a window
frame of a Boeing 747-400 costs as much
as a new BMW on long haul flights flight
attendants can work 16 hours a day
that's why some airplanes are equipped
with small bedrooms where the flight
crew can get some sleep
airplane windows are round because the
air pressure is evenly distributed this
way if the planes windows were square
strong air pressure would accumulate in
the corners of the windows making it
fail and depressurize
mechanical any commercial aircraft can
safely fly with just one engine of
course a lack of a second engine reduces
flight distance but aircraft are
designed and tested for this thanks to
the perfect aviation design most
aircraft can fly a surprisingly long
distance with all engines out of order I
think that's called gliding think you
become unreachable if you go to the
airplane toilet the door can be open
from the outside but only by the cabin
crew for safety reasons the white traces
planes leave behind in the sky are
condensed carbon dioxide in water the
liquid is released when the fuel is
burned it's basically a cloud of water
vapor similar to breathing in cold
weather up there in the sky it's always
frosting no matter what the season is
despite the cold the conditions on board
a plane at high altitudes resemble those
in the Sahara Desert
all because of very low humidity every
hour of the flight your body loses about
a glass of fluid so you need to drink a
lot during the flight but make a water
not tea or coffee the water they use to
make it on board sometimes isn't very
clean take your own water with you or
ask the flight attendant for a sealed
bottle your trip to your destination
lasts exactly as long for both cheap and
expensive seats in the same aircraft
your price is affected by the distance
between the seats the number of services
and the food quality and the expensive
seats usually board and deplane first
you'll become more emotional on a plane
you can cry watching a soap opera or
laugh at a stupid comedy our body
experiences stress and takes everything
too much to heart because of low oxygen
levels you're sitting in a closed space
at a high altitude and very far from
home so your subconscious feels unsafe
and reacts by turning on your emotions
the plane's wings flash red and green
lights at night to show the direction
the plane is heading it
a green light is always on the right
wing and a red one is on the Left
aircraft tires are designed to withstand
four to five times more pressure than
they actually experience upon landing in
fact the wheel is more likely to break
than the tire during night flights the
lights turn off so passengers get used
to the dark in case of evacuation you'll
also be asked to raise the window covers
so the flight attendants can see what is
happening outside and choose the best
side for evacuation pilots always have
different meals from each other this is
necessary to reduce the risk of food
poisoning the food can still go well if
one of the pilots has gone down because
of a stale burrito but not if it's both
of them
now some airlines don't allow pilots
have beards facial hair can prevent
securely fitting the oxygen mask and
pilots must always remain conscious
rarely oxygen masks are deployed because
of changes in the cabin air pressure
sometimes there can be a decompression
or other issue in the cabin to prevent
passengers from feeling this they can
put on oxygen masks pilots then descend
to a lower altitude and they can breathe
without them by the way mask only have
enough oxygen for 15 minutes this is
enough for the pilots to descend to a
more breathable altitude though
and finally the tray table in front of
you is not very clean you won't believe
what other people put on it from their
feet to diapers it's better to disinfect
it before using